Maddux Seal
Server-Side Programming
Lab 3
9/25/26

Desmos API
1. Research
The purpose of this API is to put math calculators and functions inside an application or website. This API is a GraphingCalculator object that provides:
•	Interactive coordinate plane
•	Plotting equations, inequalities, and functions
•	Set expressions, change viewport, and control display features
•	Custom options
As a developer, I can take the mathematic tools and use them in my own app that needs it. This can serve many applications with recording statistics, representing data, and calculating equations. I could use this for mathematic, financial, scientific, physics, or artificial intelligence purposes.


2. Software Planning
The Python server will act as a central coordinator serving the web application, storing persistent graph data, and managing custom backend logic.
1.	The browser loads the Desmos JavaScript library directly from Desmos’s servers. The Desmos API manages the real-time math rendering on the frontend.
2.	Whenever graph data needs to be saved or loaded, the frontend uses JavaScript fetch() calls to send or request JSON payloads to/from the Python server without reloading the page.
3.	Python routes requests, processes any data, and communicates with a database to persist graph states.
API calls will be made in the following situations:
STEP 1: Page Load
API Call - User Browser -> Desmos CDN : Fetch Desmos Library, GET
User navigates to my web application in their browser.
STEP: 2: Render
The browser executes local JavaScript to render the interactive calculator inside a <div> element locally.
STEP 3: Click Save
API Call - User Browser -> Python Backend : POST
The user creates a graph and clicks a “Save Graph” button. JavaScript turns this into a JSON object.
STEP 4: Select Graph
API Call - User Action -> Python Backend : GET
The user selects a previously saved graph from a dropdown menu.
STEP 5: Generate
API Call - User Action -> Python Backend : POST
The  user requests a complex calculation or mathematical preset generated server-side by Python.

3. API Use Documentation
1. Load Desmos API Library
URL example: 
GET [https://www.desmos.com/api/v1.9/calculator.js?apiKey=dcb31709b452b14ae9fe26974cbof7ed]

Request JSON Payload:
None

Response JSON Payload:
None

Interaction Description:
When the browser loads the web page, it sends an external request to Desmos’s Content Delivery Network to download the graphing calculator library. This script provides the global Desmos JavaScript object used to instantiate and control the interactive graph widget.

2. Save Graph State
URL Path Example:
POST http://localhost:5000/api/graphs

Request JSON Payload:
lab3.JSON1

Response JSON Payload:
lab3.JSON2

Interaction Description:
The user enters a title and clicks “Save Graph”. The frontend calls a method to retrieve the calculator’s current state as a JSON object and sends it via a POST request to the Python backend. Python validates it and saves it into the database.

3. Retrieve Saved Graph
URL Path Example:
GET http://localhost:5000/api/graphs/42

Request JSON Payload:
None

Response JSON Payload:
lab.JSON3

Interaction Description:
The user selects a graph from a dropdown menu. The frontend sends a GET request to the Python backend containing the graph ID. Python queries the database and returns the graph data. The frontend then calls a method to re-render the saved expressions and bounds in the calculator. 

4. Generate Server-Side Math Expression
URL Path Example:
POST http://localhost:5000/api/generate-expressions

Request JSON Payload:
lab.JSON4

Response JSON Payload:
lab.JSON5

Interaction Description:
The user requests a complex function generated from Python math logic. The frontend posts parameters to the backend, Python calculates the equation and returns it.

